.TH sos-collector 1 "April 2018"

.SH NAME
sos-collector \- Collect sosreports from multiple (cluster) nodes
.SH USAGE
.B sos-collector
    [\-a|\-\-all\-options]
    [\-b|\-\-become]
    [\-\-batch]
    [\-c CLUSTER_OPTIONS]
    [\-\-chroot CHROOT]
    [\-\-case\-id CASE_ID]
    [\-\-cluster\-type CLUSTER_TYPE]
    [\-e ENABLE_PLUGINS]
    [\-\-insecure-sudo]
    [\-k PLUGIN_OPTION]
    [\-\-label LABEL]
    [\-n SKIP_PLUGINS]
    [\-\-nodes NODES]
    [\-\-no\-pkg\-check]
    [\-\-no\-local]
    [\-\-master MASTER]
    [\-o ONLY_PLUGINS]
    [\-p SSH_PORT]
    [\-\-password PASSWORD]
    [\-\-preset PRESET]
    [\-s|\-\-sysroot SYSROOT]
    [\-\-ssh\-user SSH_USER]
    [\-\-sos-cmd SOS_CMD]
    [\-t|\-\-threads THREADS]
    [\-\-timeout TIMEOUT]
    [\-\-tmp\-dir TMP_DIR]
    [\-v|\-\-verbose]
    [\-\-verify]
    [\-z|\-\-compression-type COMPRESSION_TYPE]

.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
sos-collector is a utility to collect sosreports from multiple nodes and package
them in a single useful tar archive. 

sos-collector can be run either on a workstation that has SSH key authentication setup
for the nodes in a given cluster, or from a "master" node in a cluster that has SSH
keys configured for the other nodes.

Some sosreport options are supported by sos-collector and are passed directly to 
the sosreport command run on each node.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-alloptions\fR
Enables all sosreport options. 

This does NOT enable all sos-collector options.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-become\fR
Become the root user on the remote node when connecting as a non-root user.
.TP
\fB\-\-batch\fR
Run in non-interactive mode. This will skip prompts for user input, with the
exception of a prompt for the SSH password.
\fB\-\-all\-logs\fR
Sosreport option. Collects all logs regardless of size. 

Default: no
.TP
\fB\-c\fR CLUSTER_OPTIONS
Specify options used by cluster profiles. The format is 'profile.option_name=value'.

For example, for the ovirt plugin if you wanted to restrict node enumeration to
a specific cluster you would use \fB'-c ovirt.cluster=example_cluster'\fR.

Available cluster options can be listed by running \fB'sos-collector -l'\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-chroot\fR CHROOT
Sosreport option. Set the chroot mode. When \fB\-\-sysroot\fR is used commands default
to executing with SYSROOT as the root directory. This can be overridden by setting
\fB\-\-chroot\fR to "always" (always chroot) or "never" (always run in the host
namespace).
.TP
\fB\-\-case\-id\fR CASE_ID
Sosreport option. Specifies a case number identifier.
.TP
\fB\-\-cluster\-type\fR CLUSTER_TYPE
When run by itself, sos-collector will attempt to identify the type of cluster at play.
This is done by checking package or configuration information against the localhost, or
the master node if  \fB"--master"\fR is supplied.

Setting \fB--cluster-type\fR skips this step and forcibly sets a particular profile.

Example: \fBsos-collector --cluster-type=kubernetes\fR will force the kubernetes profile
to be run, and thus set sosreport options and attempt to determine a list of nodes using
that profile. 
.TP
\fB\-e\fR ENABLE_PLUGINS, \fB\-\-enable\-plugins\fR ENABLE_PLUGINS
Sosreport option. Use this to enable a plugin that would otherwise not be run.

This option supports providing a comma-delimited list of plugins.
.TP
\fB\-\-insecure-sudo\fR
Use this option when connecting as a non-root user that has passwordless sudo
configured.

If this option is omitted and a bogus sudo password is supplied, collection of
sosreports may exhibit unexpected behavior and/or fail entirely.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR PLUGIN_OPTION, \fB\-\-plugin\-option\fR PLUGIN_OPTION
Sosreport option. Set a plugin option to a particular value. This takes the form of
plugin_name.option_name=value.

Example: To enable the kubernetes "all" option in sosreport use \fB-k kubernetes.all=on\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-label\fR LABEL
Specify a label to be added to the archive names. This label will be applied to
both the sos-collector archive and the sosreport archives.

If a cluster sets a default label, the user-provided label will be appended to
that cluster default.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR SKIP_PLUGINS, \fB\-\-skip\-plugins\fR SKIP_PLUGINS
Sosreport option. Disable (skip) a particular plugin that would otherwise run.
This is useful if a particular plugin is prone to hanging for one reason or another.

This option supports providing a comma-delimited list of plugins.
.TP
\fB\-\-nodes\fR NODES
Provide a comma-delimited list of nodes to collect sosreports from.

Providing this option causes a cluster's profile to not discover a list of nodes on its own.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-pkg\-check\fR
Do not perform package checks. Most cluster profiles check against installed packages to determine
if the cluster profile should be applied or not.

Use this with \fB\-\-cluster-type\fR if there are rpm or apt issues on the master/local node.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-local\fR
Do not collect a sosreport from the local system. 

If \fB--master\fR is not supplied, it is assumed that the host running sosreport is part of
the cluster that is to be collected. Use this option to skip collection of a local sosreport.

This option is NOT needed if \fB--master\fR is provided.
.TP
\fB\-\-master\fR MASTER
Specify a master node for the cluster.

If provided, then sos-collector will check the master node, not localhost, for determining
the type of cluster in use.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR ONLY_PLUGINS, \fB\-\-only\-plugins\fR ONLY_PLUGINS
Sosreport option. Run ONLY the plugins listed.

Note that a cluster profile will NOT override this option. This may cause the sosreports
generated to not contain the relevant output for a given type of cluster.

This option supports providing a comma-delimited list of plugins.
.TP
\fB\-\-password\fR PASSWORD
Specifying this option will cause sos-collector to prompt the user for an SSH password
that will be used to connect to all nodes.

If you have differing passwords for the same user across cluster nodes, you should
deploy SSH keys.
.TP
\fB\-\-preset\fR PRESET
Specify a sos preset to use, note that this requires sos-3.6 or later to be installed
on the node. The given preset must also exist on the remote node - local presets
are not used.

If \fB\-\-preset\fR is specified and a given node either does not have that preset
defined, or has a version of sos prior to 3.6, this option is ignored for that node.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR SSH_PORT, \fB\-\-ssh\-port\fR SSH_PORT
Specify SSH port for all nodes. Use this if SSH runs on any port other than 22.
.TP
\fB\-\-ssh\-user\fR SSH_USER
Specify an SSH user for sos-collector to connect to nodes with. Default is root.

sos-collector will prompt for a sudo password for non-root users.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR SYSROOT, \fB\-\-sysroot\fR SYSROOT
Sosreport option. Specify an alternate root file system path.
.TP
\fB\-\-sos-cmd\fR SOS_CMD
Define all options that sosreport should be run with on the nodes. This will
override any other commandline options as well as any options specified by a 
cluster profile.

The sosreport command will execute as 'sosreport --batch SOS_CMD'. The BATCH 
option cannot be removed from the sosreport command as it is required to run 
sosreport non-interactively for sos-collector to function.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR THREADS \fB\-\-threads\fR THREADS
Specify the number of threads to use for concurrent collection of sosreports.

If the number of nodes enumerated exceeds the number of threads, then sos-collector
will start collecting from the first X number of nodes and then continue to iterate
through the remaining nodes as sosreport collection finishes.

Defaults to 4.
.TP
\fB\-\-timeout\fR TIMEOUT
Timeout for sosreport generation on each node, in seconds.

Note that sosreports are collected in parallel, so this can also be considered to be
approximately the same as a timeout for the entire collection process. 

Default is 180 seconds.
.TP
\fB\-\-tmp\-dir\fR TMP_DIR
Specify a temporary directory to save sos archives to. By default one will be created in
/tmp and then removed after sos-collector has finished running.

This is NOT the same as specifying a temporary directory for sosreport on the remote nodes.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print debug information to screen.
.TP
\fB\-\-verfiy\fR
Sosreport option. Passes the "--verify" option to sosreport on the nodes which 
causes sosreport to validate plugin-specific data during collection.

Note that this option may considerably extend the time it takes sosreport to run on
the nodes. Consider increasing \fB\-\-timeout\fR when using this option.
.TP
\fB\-z\fR COMPRESSION, \fB\-\-compression-type\fR COMPRESSION
Sosreport option. Override the default compression type.

.SH MAINTAINER
    Jake Hunsaker <jhunsake@redhat.com>
